what is Linux?
"Linux is an Open Source computer Operating System which is capable of handling activities 
from multiple users at the same time."

create directory: "mkdir" is the command to create a directory in Linux
mkdir test

change directory: "cd" is the command to change the directory in Linux
cd test

move to parent directory: "cd .."
cd ..

to check the calendar 
cal

To know who is logged into computer
who, users, w

To check the disk storage
df -h

To log out
logout

For doing shutdown
halt
init 0
init 6
poweroff
reboot
shutdown

File Management Commands

List Directory: "ls -l" is the command list down all the files and sub-directories available
in the current directory in Linux

ls -l ==> this option would help to get more info about the listed files

Meta Characters in linux (*,?)
syntax: ls fi*.txt
The above command list all the text files starts with fi

* ==> is used to match 0 or more Characters
? ==> is used to match with a single Character

Hidden Files in Linux: 
    The files which starts with dot (.) are invisible to users. we can see those fies using "ls -a"
Linux program use most of these files to store system configuration information.

single dot (.) : This represents the current directory
double dot (..) : This represents the parent directory

Creating Files in linux using vi editor:
vi filename 
The above command opens the file with the above name in vi editor

To display content of the file
cat filename

To display line numbers 
cat -b filename

counting lines,words, and characters in File
wc filename
wc file1 file2 ....

copying files in linux
cp source_file dest_file

Renaming files in linux
mv source_file dest_file
this mv command will move the existing file completely into the new file

Deleting Files in linux
rm file_name

rm file1 file2 ...

Any files contain imp information so it's better to use -i along with rm command
rm -i file1

Creating links on files
    Linux provides link mechanism to access file from another location. 
    These links are alternate names for the existing files.
    These links could be symbolic links or hard links

Symbolic link
ln -s filename link_name

Hard link
ln filename link_name

we can check these created links using ls -l

Note: by using this symbolic / hard links we can access original file. we can edit these files using the links.
 If we delete a link file then your original file will remain undeleted or unchanged.

 